README.md, before:

Faster Guin
=====

A texture packer utilizing (fork of) [Runtime-TextureAtlas](https://github.com/EngineerSmith/Runtime-TextureAtlas)
using LÖVE and Python.

Requirements
-----

* LÖVE 11.x - to run `packerguin` folder.

* Python 3.10 - tu run `fasterguin` module. 3.9 works but there's
[issue](https://bugs.python.org/issue42233) with their typing module.

* ImageMagick 7 - ImageMagick 6 is **not** supported!

* [ASTCEnc](https://github.com/ARM-software/astc-encoder) - ASTC encoder required to run
`android` profile (see below).

* [EtcTool](https://github.com/google/etc2comp) - ETC2 encoder required to run `low` profile (see below).

Running
-----

For the usage, please run `python fasterguin/main.py`. You can also install the package with
`pip install .` if you want, but you'll lose ability to auto-find Packer Guin.

Make sure you have cloned with submodules before running. For example, `git clone $URL --recurse-submodules`, 
or run `git submodule update --init --recursive` if you have already cloned it.

Profiles
-----

List of possible profiles:

* `pc` (default) - Only re-encode image to PNG. Resulting texture has `.png` extension.

* `android` - Encodes image to ASTC texture. Resulting texture has `.astc.ktx` extension.

* `low` - Encodes image to ETC2 texture. Resulting texture has `.etc2.ktx` extension.

Input File Format
-----

The input file format is composed as one or more commands. The command pattern are:  
```
<command> <input> [option_1 <value>] [option_2 <value>] ... [option_n <value>]
```

In most cases, `<input>` is the input file in your raw assets directory. `#` at beginning
and empty lines are ignored.

List of commands:

### `copyd`

Copy directory **recursively** to the output path. `<input>` is the directory to copy.

### `copyf`

Copy file to the output path. `<input>` is the file to copy.

### `file`

Include image file as part of the assets. `<input>` is the image file.

Accepts [`dimension`](#dimension) and [`resize`](#resize) options.

### `folder`

Include directory containing images **non-recursively** as part of the asets. `<input>` is the directory.

Accepts [`destination`](#destination), [`dimension`](#dimension), and [`resize`](#resize) options.

### `output`

Set the output file for the `metadata.json` (`<input>` parameter). The metadata contains the all original
dimensions and resized non-PO2'd images included in the assets in that order. The key is the path to the
image with prefix.

```json
{
	"path/to/image.png": [original image w, original image h, resized image w, resized image h]
}
```

The default is `metadata.json`.

### `pack`

Run Packer Guin. `<input>` is the Packer Guin input file. See below for the file syntax.

Accepts [`algorithm`](#algorithm) option.

### `prefix`

Set the output asset prefix for the metadata. `<input>` is the desired prefix. To illustrate
how this parameter works, consider this LOVE game structure:

```
path/to/game
|   conf.lua
|   main.lua
+---assets
|   |   image1.png
|   |   image2.png
```

If you access your images with `assets/image1.png` and you set the output directory of the script
to `path/to/game/assets`, then you need to specify `"assets"` as the prefix.

Options
-----

The command can accept one or more options.

List of options:

### `algorithm`

Set the packer algorithm for the [`pack`](#pack) command. Valid options are:

* `tree` - Use Tree node packing algorithm.

* `grid` - Use RTA's custom packing algorithm.

The default is `grid` if this option is absent.

### `destination`

Set output destination relative to the output assets directory.

### `dimension`

Set the assumed image dimensions. Valid values are:

* `<w>x<h>` - Assume it's exactly specified.

* `original` - Use the original image dimension as-is.

If this option is absent, the image dimension is set to the original image or the
resized image (if [`resize`](#resize) option is present).

### `resize`

Resize the input image. Valid values are:

* `<w>x<h>` - Resize exactly to specified dimensions.

* `x<h>` - Automatically compute the width based on the ratio with fixed height.

* `<w>x` - Automatically compute the height based on the ratio with fixed width.

* `<scale>%` - Scale by percentage.

If this option is absent, the image is not resized.

Packer Guin Input
-----

The file format for `pack` command is as follows

```
output output.packed
size 2048
extrude -1
prefix assets

file <input>
file <input>
...
file <input>

folder <input>
folder <input>
...
folder <input>
```

To explain, the `output` tells where to put the packed `.png` and the `.json` metadata
containing the slice information relative to the output directory in the Python script.
The `size` is the maximum square dimensions allowed for this particular texture atlas.
`extrude` extrudes by specified amount of pixels, but if `-1` is specified, the best
amount of pixels is computed for you (usually `ceil(log2(max(final_width, final_height)))`).
Finally the `prefix` is same as [above](#prefix).

After those information, one or more `file` or `folder` must be specified. `file` specify
one image to be added to atlas and `folder` specify a directory of images to be added to
atlas (non-recursive).

Currently, you must place this Packer Guin file in the root folder of your input assets
directory, usually in same directory as the input file for Faster Guin. This hopefully
change in the future.

License
-----

MIT.

Commit message:

clarify what the "dimension" option means

README.md, after:

Faster Guin
=====

A texture packer utilizing (fork of) [Runtime-TextureAtlas](https://github.com/EngineerSmith/Runtime-TextureAtlas)
using LÖVE and Python.

Requirements
-----

* LÖVE 11.x - to run `packerguin` folder.

* Python 3.10 - tu run `fasterguin` module. 3.9 works but there's
[issue](https://bugs.python.org/issue42233) with their typing module.

* ImageMagick 7 - ImageMagick 6 is **not** supported!

* [ASTCEnc](https://github.com/ARM-software/astc-encoder) - ASTC encoder required to run
`android` profile (see below).

* [EtcTool](https://github.com/google/etc2comp) - ETC2 encoder required to run `low` profile (see below).

Running
-----

For the usage, please run `python fasterguin/main.py`. You can also install the package with
`pip install .` if you want, but you'll lose ability to auto-find Packer Guin.

Make sure you have cloned with submodules before running. For example, `git clone $URL --recurse-submodules`, 
or run `git submodule update --init --recursive` if you have already cloned it.

Profiles
-----

List of possible profiles:

* `pc` (default) - Only re-encode image to PNG. Resulting texture has `.png` extension.

* `android` - Encodes image to ASTC texture. Resulting texture has `.astc.ktx` extension.

* `low` - Encodes image to ETC2 texture. Resulting texture has `.etc2.ktx` extension.

Input File Format
-----

The input file format is composed as one or more commands. The command pattern are:  
```
<command> <input> [option_1 <value>] [option_2 <value>] ... [option_n <value>]
```

In most cases, `<input>` is the input file in your raw assets directory. `#` at beginning
and empty lines are ignored.

List of commands:

### `copyd`

Copy directory **recursively** to the output path. `<input>` is the directory to copy.

### `copyf`

Copy file to the output path. `<input>` is the file to copy.

### `file`

Include image file as part of the assets. `<input>` is the image file.

Accepts [`dimension`](#dimension) and [`resize`](#resize) options.

### `folder`

Include directory containing images **non-recursively** as part of the asets. `<input>` is the directory.

Accepts [`destination`](#destination), [`dimension`](#dimension), and [`resize`](#resize) options.

### `output`

Set the output file for the `metadata.json` (`<input>` parameter). The metadata contains the all original
dimensions and resized non-PO2'd images included in the assets in that order. The key is the path to the
image with prefix.

```json
{
	"path/to/image.png": [original image w, original image h, resized image w, resized image h]
}
```

The default is `metadata.json`.

### `pack`

Run Packer Guin. `<input>` is the Packer Guin input file. See below for the file syntax.

Accepts [`algorithm`](#algorithm) option.

### `prefix`

Set the output asset prefix for the metadata. `<input>` is the desired prefix. To illustrate
how this parameter works, consider this LOVE game structure:

```
path/to/game
|   conf.lua
|   main.lua
+---assets
|   |   image1.png
|   |   image2.png
```

If you access your images with `assets/image1.png` and you set the output directory of the script
to `path/to/game/assets`, then you need to specify `"assets"` as the prefix.

Options
-----

The command can accept one or more options.

List of options:

### `algorithm`

Set the packer algorithm for the [`pack`](#pack) command. Valid options are:

* `tree` - Use Tree node packing algorithm.

* `grid` - Use RTA's custom packing algorithm.

The default is `grid` if this option is absent.

### `destination`

Set output destination relative to the output assets directory.

### `dimension`

Set the assumed image dimensions, ie. what size the metadata reports the image to be. This can be used as reference for drawing the image at the appropriate size as defined by the original artwork.
Valid values are:

* `<w>x<h>` - Assume it's exactly specified.

* `original` - Use the original image dimension as-is.

If this option is absent, the image dimension is set to the original image or the
resized image (if [`resize`](#resize) option is present).

### `resize`

Resize the input image. Valid values are:

* `<w>x<h>` - Resize exactly to specified dimensions.

* `x<h>` - Automatically compute the width based on the ratio with fixed height.

* `<w>x` - Automatically compute the height based on the ratio with fixed width.

* `<scale>%` - Scale by percentage.

If this option is absent, the image is not resized.

Packer Guin Input
-----

The file format for `pack` command is as follows

```
output output.packed
size 2048
extrude -1
prefix assets

file <input>
file <input>
...
file <input>

folder <input>
folder <input>
...
folder <input>
```

To explain, the `output` tells where to put the packed `.png` and the `.json` metadata
containing the slice information relative to the output directory in the Python script.
The `size` is the maximum square dimensions allowed for this particular texture atlas.
`extrude` extrudes by specified amount of pixels, but if `-1` is specified, the best
amount of pixels is computed for you (usually `ceil(log2(max(final_width, final_height)))`).
Finally the `prefix` is same as [above](#prefix).

After those information, one or more `file` or `folder` must be specified. `file` specify
one image to be added to atlas and `folder` specify a directory of images to be added to
atlas (non-recursive).

Currently, you must place this Packer Guin file in the root folder of your input assets
directory, usually in same directory as the input file for Faster Guin. This hopefully
change in the future.

License
-----

MIT.
